# Cost-Effective-Failover-Clustering

In a failover cluster, there are two computers (or occasionally several computers). One (primary) provides the service in normal situations. A second (failover) computer is present in order to run the service when the primary system fails. The primary system is monitored, with active checks every few seconds to ensure that the primary system is operating correctly. The system performing the monitoring may be either the failover computer or an independent system (called the cluster controller). In the event of the active system failing, or failure of components associated with the active system such as network hardware, the monitoring system will detect the failure and the failover system will take over operation of the service.	Every company or an organization has to use a database for storing information. But what if this database fails? So it behooves the company to use another database for backup purpose. This is called as failover clustering. For making this clustering manageable and lucid the corporate people spend more money on buying a licensed copy for both, the core database and the redundant database.
This overhead can be avoided using a database with non-similar platform in which one database is licensed and other may be a freeware. If platforms are similar then the transactions between those databases becomes simpler. But it won’t be the case with non-similar platforms. Hence, to overcome this problem in both cases, cost effective failover clustering is proposed. For designing such system a common interfacing technique between two non-similar database platforms has to be developed. This will make provision for using any two database management system platforms for the failover clustering. If the clustering is implemented using this technique it will provide the same minimum downtime service to the user at minimum cost.
